so i got no agenda no slides we i did a
lot of slides already i just thought
that
if there was anybody left at the end of
day two
that had anything they wanted to talk
about scaling sas
fundraising
hiring
anything and i could be helpful we could
do a little extra q a so but i got no
particular topics but if i can help in
any way let me know so
open it up if i can help in any way or i
can make make it up but anyone got a
question they've got to start
is there anything i don't know
uh there's a lot i i don't i don't know
i think uh
i
what's that
i think
i think we're all still learning well
look i mean
i think
all everyone here
and and importantly for everyone you
hire you need to hire curious minds
right it's curious minds that let us be
great at what we're doing and
i think that
you know i must have talked with four or
five ceos here today
doing more than five million not 500
million who who asked me oh one doing
100 million
asked me am i good enough to be the ceo
still should i still be the ceo and
that's not the question you asked but i
do think it's a question everyone should
ask themselves each year
and and the answer i think is twofold
one
if you can recruit people better than
you you should still be the ceo and two
i think you have to have a curious mind
you have to be deeply passionate about
what you're doing and want to learn more
and as sometimes we're not as founders
sometimes founders sell their companies
because they're
they don't end up being deeply
passionate about what it does um but
for me i i you know i i
i find that the mechanics of building
these companies how it's changed the
physics of it are very interesting so i
try to i try to be a subject matter
expert but
everything i do i learned a lot today i
learned i've done a bunch of things with
henry from zoom info if you were at that
one you could probably see i learned a
few things on stage even though i knew
the slides so
yeah there's a lot i i haven't learned
um
for what it's worth um
uh i think i try to write these on
saster i think there's a gift today
which is that
you know it's in the last two years i
mean zoom info only ipo'd right after
covet hit so it's probably april or may
it's not that long ago right it's two
years ago now there's 20 or 30 public
sas companies we can freaking learn from
and i i write one each week on sasha.com
if you haven't seen it's called five
interesting learnings like there's
nothing in those five interesting
learnings you can't find on tech on like
stock picking sites and seeking alpha
but i try to do it from a founder's
perspective
and and you can learn from these what's
their nr how do they get their customer
what's their deal size what's their
acquisition channel how much do they get
from seo and sem and
it's a rambling answer but i think it's
just a gift that we can learn from all
these public sas companies and some
things they're too big right i mean it
was funny for henry saney he segmented
his um sales team at 80 million in error
that's a little late for a lot of people
here right
but we can learn a lot from zoom info uh
how it's sales and marketing efficiency
which is crazy good that early the fact
that they're still only 11 international
today and why and so
those are the next level gifts right is
is um learning from the public companies
and the real unicorns um because there's
something in each of them that you're
like holy this information was not
i don't even know it was public in some
cases it wasn't even known just a couple
years ago right so that's answer the
question
hey
the crisis
the question is where are we in the
crisis in valuations i'll i'll give you
maybe a little bit i i went to maybe
half the vc session say i'll probably
give you a different perspective on them
first of all as i said in the opener
there's no crisis in sas there's no
buying crisis
and again
um and i mean this a little bit meanly
but there's no excuse
for to not hit most of your plan this
year there's no excuse um every look and
again look at the public companies look
at snowflake and git lab and zoom info i
mean growing almost 60 percent of a
billion in revenue yes zoom in shopify
and folks that were huge coveted
beneficiaries had a bit of a hit but
even those have resumed their growth
path so don't there is a downturn here
in venture which i'll chat about but the
downturn in sas at best is uneven at
best it's concentrated in over-funded
unicorns and some parts of consumer
but the economy even though it's weird
there's inflation there's all it is
close to as good as ever been so sell
your product right so but
but valuation so i just wanted to repeat
that piece because ultimately they're
connected um but i heard half the ducks
let me be clear on the valuation thing
which i knew before i came out here but
i knew even better when i talked to so
many vcs here it was a reminder
the let's go back from the top and like
kristoff touched on this but we go in
more detail the highest stage of
ventures crossover crossover funds tcv
is one of an early one
but even mutual funds that invest in
unicorns and why these are crossovers is
they have a dedicated amount of capital
and they can pick a public company or
private company vcs mostly can't do this
a few can and recent and maybe sequoia
but 99 of vcs you meet legally they can
only invest in startups whether they're
late stage or early stage crossover
funds can go where where it's greener
and
for a long time until this boom until
the 2019-2021 move crossover funds would
be very careful and they would invest in
they would find a a a tech company that
ipo that was a little undervalued that
people didn't understand and they put it
they would put 50 or 100 million here
and then they'd find something funky
like atlassian no one ever heard of that
was maybe bootstrapped and they'd give
them some money
and then what you started to see is
unicorns and decacorns rose
all that money went from public to
private because holy crap like sequoia
invested at zoom in a billion
um 12 months later at ipo is at 4
billion and 12 months later it's worth
80 billion so everyone in the world
wanted to do zoom at a billion because
there was the greatest play on mankind
so crossover ventures of it is they're
investing zero percent in the private
market all that money's gone at the top
okay then there's different types of
growth late growth and growth anything
north of a billion is frozen the deals
aren't happening and when you read it
there's several unicorns that got
announced today i think on techcrunch
i'm pretty sure all those deals were in
process before the crash i might be
wrong but i think if they say it's not
they're either misinformed or
lying or euthamistic okay there are no
there are basically no deals above a
billion being done there will be an
exception
but when holy cow when companies like
get lab
are at
you know 400 million growing 70 and
they're worth 5 or 6 billion you can't
invest in a unicorn anymore the math
does not support it today it could come
back so crossover completely frozen late
growth
semi-frozen right so this and then this
iceberg kind of melts a little bit as
you get closer to seed because you have
a longer time horizon valuations are not
as variable
and so kind of as several folks said
starting with kristoff at the early seed
stage i would say
folks are about half as active as they
were 60 days ago half so you have to try
twice as hard meet twice as many people
and maybe be
eight times as patient not twice as
patient but i think it's about half as
um as open um zach collius who did the
last session he's a prolific angel
investor
we chatted after i'm like how are you
doing he's like my my my deal flow and
my deals are down 50 i thought he was
going to say they're up because he's
very active right um so i think that
ties to 50 and then at the top it might
be
five percent of what it was um
and i'll give you one last insider
example there's a company i invested in
it's a little funky but last year it
went one to twelve in one year
that's pretty good right
that's pretty good and um
they had 100 vcs that wanted to invest
last year and he decided three weeks ago
was the right time to race perfect
timing and he sends me an email i'm like
listen don't read everything on the
internet but maybe wait like like where
were you in december or maybe when he's
like no i'm gonna do it and those
hundred shrunk to two
a hundred people would have funded him
now it's not a cheap valuation but it's
not a unicorn but the hundred shrunk to
two so that's a that's an anecdote now
and then let me finish what's different
about the two
the two folks and one of them offered to
invest 50 to 75 million the other
offered to invest 15. so very different
structures
um
the difference is
neither one was a ver was a big growth
fund one was smaller but neither of them
had a lot of scar tissue
neither of them had a lot of
companies that they're digging out that
were worth five billion an hour worth
one billion that triage consumes
oxygen for individual vcs but it also
consumes oxygen in the fund and i only
worked at someone else's fund for 22
months but when you go to a partners
meeting in a vc fund on monday and it's
four hours longer all day at big funds
unfortunately the yellow lights take up
all the time and the more the tougher
times are the more all the time is well
you know our company whatever mugmug.net
has eight months of runway what do we do
like and it just the tougher times are
it consumes all the air so deals don't
get done so the two out of the 100 that
came through
weren't overloaded not with dogs not
with red lights because red lights are
painful but then you don't talk about
them ever again but the yellow lights
totally grew in every vcu's portfolio
now they're full of yellow lights but
these two didn't are new
like one has about a billion to invest
one has 400 but they're new vcs not
brand new vcs but new funds
and so
an insider tip if you are fundraising
figure out now's a good time from new
funds and newer vcs that have less
baggage and if you look at their
portfolio and they invested in bird and
bolt and these other high profile and
nothing wrong with i mean they tried
their founders but if you see those like
maybe maybe their the odds that comes
through are pretty low today right
so
yeah a little bit if it works or
or i'll repeat it for the crowd oh hey
jason what would you tell to your 20
years old jason
20 years old yeah
um
i i wasn't i don't know if i had enough
presence of mind at 20. so maybe i'll
answer the question differently right um
i think um look i don't have any
i think i coup a couple things i would
say one inject well maybe 20. i'll go
with 20 and then maybe i'll go like 28
or 30 30 33 but um
one is um stick with everything good
longer
everything good longer don't be
impatient um i a lot of a lot of
folks that have a lot of passion like me
are impatient they're impatient to do
great things they're impatient when the
people around them are not as committed
they're impatient and
if you if you join something either as
an executive
a vp or a director and your boss is
great but there's other things that
aren't stay
stay
if you have a great boss even if the
growth even if the growth slows even if
there's issues stay with a great boss if
you're a founder and you have something
to do longer don't quit
don't don't move on and don't wish that
you ran a hotter startup
like
time if you do something great you know
time is is your is your ally comp
everything compounds everything
compounds and so that's my advice to the
20 something self is stay longer so stay
longer at everything and um
i'll tell you like i'm most of all the
founders i'm impressed with i'm most
impressed with founders that i meet and
and i'm like how are you doing well i'm
at 2 million in revenue and i'm gonna
i'm going to grow you know 2.5 x this
year i'm gonna go from two to five or
two to six i'm like oh my god that's
great why did you start the company uh
2012.
uh go
on i did a go go read five interesting
learnings from uipath on saster uipath
took 10 years to get to 1 million in
revenue
10 years to get one minute those are the
f i respect all founders that give it
their all but those folks are so much
better than me i could never go 10 years
to a million
in revenue
so go longer
what does hiring look like
um
i i i think that i see so far zero
benefits to hiring from these issues
here um
yeah first of all for a couple reasons
first of all this this first thing like
is kind of mean to say i know i'm gonna
trigger some people
but the problem with
small layoffs like if you lay off a
small number of people a lot of them are
not the best people
so great like some company lays off four
percent
like there are gems there and go find
the gems and hire them there really are
gems in every company and layoffs suck
but usually they're cutting the bottom
10 of their performers so these layoffs
don't help in sas they don't they don't
address the lack of labor because it's
it's terrible if they lay off a third
like be on it like that day like just be
hitting them but but if it's single
digits there's a gem but maybe it's hard
it's tough but only a gem so that's not
helping and very despite techcrunch and
twitter there's not that many layoffs
there's not that it's not that big of a
deal so that's not helping the lack of
hiring and everyone
everyone that's big is hiring like
there's no tomorrow aws like i forget
i'm going to get the numbers wrong i
think amazon has 10 000 open positions
out in aws i think azure is like 7 000
google
um and so i don't see
i hope that people don't arrogantly quit
like they did during the great
resignation but i don't see any other
relief i think hiring is harder than
ever the only thing i will say
informally here
is cry me a river because
every single year i've been an
entrepreneur hiring was hard
and it's either hard because it's you're
early in an industry and there's no
talent at all that's actually where
anything you think it's worse when
there's no one available let me tell you
when there's no i've done multiple
companies where in the beginning the
beginning of these signatures in the
beginning of the final battles there was
nobody right and so
yeah crimey river that 100 people want
to hire your vp but at least she exists
like it's actually better today because
the people exist okay it is better than
it has ever been and of course it's
competitive because there's more
startups than ever but it means there's
more talent so i still think i i think
there's nothing harder as a founder than
recruiting or a vp it's never easier but
um but i'm not sure it's harder it's
just different and so you have to evolve
your playbook
so
hey hey jason
so yesterday you said we're all candies
and not painkillers we're all uh oh all
vitamins and not painkillers yeah sorry
so can you elaborate a bit of it
well
uh yeah i mean i just think there's a
lot of vc-isms that are a little bit
dumb and trite and and there's germs of
truth in them but you don't want to take
them too seriously a lot you know vcs
are like i don't want to invest in
things that just make my company a
little better like vitamins make me a
little healthier but but but painkillers
solve a huge like i need the painkiller
when i break my leg but the vitamins you
don't really need to take and maybe i
don't even really understand that i
don't i'm not sure that's the best
metaphor now that we say it but the
point is vitamins are kind of nice but
painkillers you must have and so in the
enterprise there's a handful of problems
you have to solve you need your crm you
need your erp you need your human
capital management like these these are
categories of software that have existed
for 30 or 40 years for a reason and you
can mock
salesforce or oracle or workday or these
but these are these are endemic issues
that will always need heavy software
right they're they're
they're they're um
they're pain killers and then a lot of
folks will say well
great another you know video app like i
don't need i don't need a zoom or like
calendly like i like i mean that seems
dumb i mean yes it would be nice if the
video and the audio synced and it'd be
nice if peop the link worked in the
calendar thing but we don't really i
mean come on this is not a these are not
earth shattering problems these sorts of
companies um uh you know and um and yet
so so so my point is that even if that's
true even if some applications are so
epic
they're rarely there in the beginning
salesforce was a very rudimentary smb
app for a brief period of time but it
was it sold to very small companies it
didn't even have um custom tabs it just
had four tabs out of the box and even
compared to like where pipe drive was in
2013 it did less it was rudimentary and
it became enterprise it was not a
sales source today is clearly a
painkiller it solves massive enterprise
workflow and issues but it did not start
there and so that was my point don't we
all we all just really start with a 10x
feature one little thing that matters to
a buyer
that someone else doesn't do or ignores
or doesn't have time to do anymore
that's what matters not not immediately
building being irreplaceable your first
year it's not going to happen
hi so you were saying that we shouldn't
worry so much about the economical uh
situation what would you uh with a large
caveat for fundraising how it impacts
you but keep going with the question
yeah my question uh would be
which mega trends do you think we should
look at
uh these days and these coming months
um
i'm not that i'm not smart enough to
know about megatrends the only thing i
think makes sense for everyone to do
today as a my as a
minor trend
is i think
with there is still uncertainty today
now is a good time to go a little more
enterprise
those budgets are not as impacted um
there is some um and
if if you're if you're not enterprise at
all don't don't don't start tomorrow
because of because a little bit of
uncertainty don't go from a 10 a month
product to a million dollars a year but
if you're already
teasing into it if your deal size is
going up a bit if your customers are
getting a little bit bigger
i think
so much of the money is going into
bigger enterprises today in cloud
that it's a good conservative bet to go
to accelerate that six or nine months in
your product roadmap go a little more
enterprise now
where there's less sensitivity less
volatility you know the most volatility
is in high burn rate unicorns those are
the most stressed today um smbs are
still there's still going to be some
stress there's weird things happening
with smbs with inflation and some parts
of consumer but so far there's no
material impact in enterprise so
that's my minor no mega trend that's my
minor trend right um and then i would
say the other thing is that's the most
important thing
i think the other thing
just to be aware of it may not be true
of your company i think it's really
really even though overall buying is
it's growing at insane rates
it's going to be a long time until folks
are comfortable with lower quality
revenue again and what i mean is
fintechs with 20 margins um companies
you know folks with huge with even even
folks like twilio one of the best
companies in the history of cloud and
sas with 50 something percent margins
they're suffering because their telecom
costs are high things with margins below
that um they're going to be out of
fashion for a really long time so if
your gross margins are lower because you
have hardware because you have telecom
because of the way you do fintech um it
may be time to rework things right like
as a really interesting example like
like pay hawks here they're they're
whatever they're they're great
they've done they've architected the way
they do payments differently in europe
brexit is amazing in the u.s ramp is
amazing but those are like 30 20 gross
margin products
these guys and and probably others are
like last year no one cared just grow
like no one really cared about revenue
quality twilio grew insanely because no
one really cared whether it was 55 or 80
margin but today
these are the models that enduring and
it's tough with these load margin so you
can't change who you are right um but
now is the time to go a bit more
enterprise and increase your margins and
quality of revenue and that those are
the those are the tactical trends to
take advantage of
we have anybody anyone else
mr 1 million ar
what does future of work look like do
you think the remote trend continues or
like vc back to office more
ask the question again because it's
getting late on the on the second and a
half day what what is future work like
in general but be more specific
um companies will go more towards back
into office or like the remote trend
continues
um
well look i mean i'm i'm no
we all we're all equally experts in this
today we're all running companies
that in many cases were not distributed
before coveted and almost all of us are
distributed today
and
so actually i only know a few things
everyone else doesn't know right um
but um i guess just
one thing is um
you know uh
i don't think this is profound we're
never not going to be distributed right
we have learned these skills the hard
way and and we're all global and it's
never going back and there may be
segments
that go back fully to the office and
certainly in places like london and
europe it's more common but i can tell
you in sf
all the offices are close to lease now
they're full and they're all empty and
they will never be full
you will never in sf classic sas be able
to get anybody to go back to the office
now the old school tech companies the
apples googles that are in the bay area
even microsoft linkedin where they have
folks that have lived in the bay area
for 20 years and did not leave they can
force they can try to force them to go
back to the office right i don't want to
drive 15 minutes from my house in
mountain view because because most of
their teams never moved
right the apple and linkedin
the googles they never move so you can
just say come come on back but most of
us the vast majority of our teams no
longer live so so it's gone right um and
so
but
that doesn't mean the office is dead and
it's in i invested in i'm a small
investor in a company that used to be
called hello office that's now called
raise that does leasing and software for
for y combinator and ro co-working space
and notion a lot of cool companies and
they're doing pretty well now and
all the all the folks that are unicorns
not all a lot of them want a trophy
office they want 100 000 square feet 150
000 square feet for when the teams come
to together or for the management team
so
i think the hybrid office is here
but for tech it's a it's it's it's it's
an infrequent use right
but i don't know if that's super helpful
hey
hi jason so can we talk a bit of this
differentiation in enterprise sas
so you
in martech you have like a bunch of
players it's not winner takes it all
some of them are stronger and then there
are younger guys like us that want to
win the market or grab the share so
shall we innovate more in marketing or
in products kind of unique features so
what type of
approach do you think is more
more important or it's just
well look there's a lot in that question
the question is what's in crowded spaces
should you focus on marketing your
product or what you should do i think
it's um henry from zoom info had a lot
of good thoughts on it that i can
reiterate now that he's at a billion in
revenue but i think i think if you're
early stage it's the wrong it's the
wrong way to think about it um
crowded
it's not bad to be in a crowded space
crowded space means there's a lot of
buyers and there's a lot of money
crowded space means
that crowded space also means you don't
have to do everything
you don't have to do every single
function to still get a customer there
are spaces where if you don't do
everything the products work less right
if there's a thousand vendors in the
space that means if you just do one
thing well there's enough roi and
there's enough mental bandwidth to buy
that you can sell and that's the reason
there's a thousand marketing
applications because every cmo needs to
generate pipeline awareness leads and
they will test anything that works and
shoot what doesn't and keep trying
things right same in cyber security like
the threats always change so cyber i'm
not an expert in cyber security but
since the dawn of time security is
evergreen because every year you've got
to try to keep up with threats every
year there's budget and so there's
always room for innovators even if
they're niche solutions and so for all
these types of categories
i know it's right but you just have to
find your 10x feature that someone will
buy what's something that one little
thing you can do 10 times better that
five people can build not 5 000
that is being ignored by the marketers
mediocre and that people will pay for
and there is there's there's
constantly more room in many spaces for
this than possible so you figure out
your 10x feature that's how you break
out like zoom info with henry like
they started off in a little segment of
data around sales leads that no one else
had good data on they sold a little bit
and they built on and they built that
and then they bought their direct
competitor and they built on and they
started with a little piece and we
should maybe it would have been a good
job of time more they talked just a
little tiny piece that they were 10x
better even though general contact data
was a commodity and they found one piece
and they build it and build it and build
it and then his point was then in a lot
of categories eventually there's parody
right and with gong and chorus they
bought chorus and gong and chorus at a
certain i would argue gong has now
become a much richer product than chorus
but there was a couple years where they
both were these point solutions for
listening to your sales teams and they
were both great
but gong out executed chorus even though
in his opinion the tech was similar we
could debate it but but his point isn't
wrong is that there becomes these parody
things where marketing is more important
than product
but
it's pretty uncommon but before 10 20 30
million in revenue and sometimes a lot
later
so
hi
one question
what would be your advice on finding a
mentor on a personal level and for uh
management and what are maybe things
that we should be careful about when
finding for a mentor yeah
yeah it's such an important topic i wish
i had the perfect answers um
i'll say if i'll say a couple obvious
things then try to be helpful one is
that um there's no point in a mediocre
mentor
don't hire washed out people don't hire
someone that didn't do it don't hire
some and be very there are some great
ones be wary of expensive coaches
it's worth the money but they better
have done it
they better have done it and i would say
most
mentors is it's tough because the best
ones don't really want to be mentors
anymore and the mediocre ones want to be
mentors right so but but as a founder
exec like it's your job to hunt and find
the best because they're always hard
right but again i really see negative
roi from a mediocre mentor right so
barely helpful and then
i'll give you the next very helpful
insight and then just try my best answer
i think you want two mentors
for for for most of the folks here
you want one mentor that's about 18
months ahead of you
and one that's maybe four or five or
further years right the one that's for
like if i if we could get henry from to
be our mentor that'd be great and he has
so many good lessons but you heard him
on stage today oh it was early around 80
million okay so most of us aren't there
that's not how we define early so i
would give a lot for henry to be my
mentor but not my only mentor
right
and then you need someone if you're at 2
million find someone at 10 if you're a
10 find someone at 30. if you're at 30
find someone at 100. if you're i was
just talking about the great ceo here at
100 and she's seeking out everyone
that's just ipo'd that's her that's
she's seeking them out like a heat
seeking missile everyone she asked me
for three introductions in 60 seconds to
ceos i know that have just ipoded are
going to ipo because she's at 100 she's
two years behind them right so you need
you need both
so those are no mediocre you need to to
really get the benefits and then the
only thing i can tell you is um everyone
every great founder learns to be a nudge
without being too nudgy like i'm not
great at it but most folks they're
aggressive without breaking crossing the
line right
and
you don't know who wants to be a mentor
but you might be surprised if you do a
volume game it's like recruiting for a
vp today like you've got to talk to 30
or 40 vps at least to find a good one
you three isn't enough so do the same
thing with a mentor try to meet do some
in person do brain dates do it over the
internet do it over linkedin don't be
too transactional but aim for 30 or 40
and
you'll be surprised there was a moment
in time when i didn't have that much to
do 2013 2014 and i was sort of a men i
was an angel but really a mentor so like
pj from cho pad spoke yesterday about
way to 100 i was the first person they
met when they came to the us from
belgium i'm like
i'm pretty interested in like
ipad for sass like that was new i'm like
you guys seem pretty cool i'll be your
mentor right there but now there's just
no way like i don't care what you do i
can't be your men like i it doesn't i
don't care if you'll pay me a billion
dollars in stock i can't be your ma i
literally
but but even for me i i could imagine a
random time in two years
i might have time right and there were
moments in code that i had time there
were moments there are brief moments in
covet i'm just speaking personally so
you wouldn't know
unless you did the outreach at just at
just the right time right so you got to
be tenacious what's that
yeah but you got to make your luck as a
founder right it doesn't find you right
that's the thing yeah
i like your um your statistics around
sas spending yeah and nevertheless um we
see some budget freezes with enterprise
sales you do so yeah so some like
especially the manufacturing side of
things so
any best practices around you just go
higher because you need bigger budgets
or do you go lower and split up the
solution so to get in the foot in your
door
well two i'd say two things one once
first the strategic and then the
tactical the strategic thing is for
everyone it is true but in most cases
and these freezes are new right i would
say this is really rough it may not be
true for you but i would say really
rough a lot of sas companies are seeing
20 of their companies have freezes
but the top 20 are growing faster than
ever
so instead of whining about the freezes
go hunt the 20 that aren't frozen it's
not a hundred percent and it's not it's
not even one to one you actually are
coming out a little bit ahead because
the top ones are growing even more right
than the ones that are frozen right so
that's the strategic the tactical thing
is what folks are doing
there was just a little sidebar
conversation
that jack wright on our team said
when it's frozen it doesn't mean it's
inaccessible
but you may have to touch 10 times as
many people at the company so don't give
up
if you talk to one person your buyer and
she says our budgets are frozen well
have you talked to the cmo have you
talked to the cro have you talked to the
other vp have you talked to all of them
you may find if your product is not 10
million dollars a year that there is
still budget but it's a different way to
access it freezes are not all frozen
but uh there's always extra budget
there's always innovation budget and
there's always unused budget but
and i i frankly didn't even fully
appreciate this until i learned this
talking to a bunch of leaders here
you might have to talk to five to ten
ten more people at those frozen
companies to open it up but it is it
isn't often if they're not going
bankrupt it's often openable if they
really want it
but you just need all the stakeholders
to say yes not just one
all right
hey hey over here i have a question
around um
scaling from founder led sales
especially if you're good at closing
1000 sales reps what you said a thousand
sales reps no i'm moving on from founder
let's say i'll find okay i could do that
better than a thousand sales reps yeah
we need to get i don't even know if
henry has a thousand sales reps at zoom
info yeah especially if you're good at
closing as a founder yes so if question
a would be is there like a ballpark
estimate for the ar and when to do it
and then if how like just
feeding with sdrs and keep being the
closer or actually bringing in someone
who takes over completely from you so
you can get a bit like hands off and
more strategically laying out for the
next years and so there's a lot of
questions there on founder-led sales
and
it actually it's a discussion that i
don't think can be discussed too often
because if i have to talk about the
single biggest mistake i still see with
founders i work with is screwing this up
to this day they screw it up even more
often i see it screwed up all the time
um
and i'm gonna i'm gonna come back and
tell you when i but i'm gonna and i
wanna talk more about this but i want to
if i want to give you the number one
mistake founders make today that i don't
know that they made that often five
years ago and definitely didn't make it
when i was doing it is
they step out of sales immediately
and here's the one thing you got to
learn for founder lead sales
when you hire a vp of sales or direct or
whatever head of sales
this is how many minutes you get back in
your day
zero
now
now what does happen is if they're any
good
they re they rework your calendar
instead of the co being the opener and
the middle ear and the closer they
handle the closing and they handle the
oh the opener and you become more of a
middler okay you spend your time being
the visionary the architect the product
expert you jump into the deal and the
customer falls in love with the ceo and
maybe even the ceo even does the extra
demo a few things they don't do builds
the relationship builds trust and maybe
doesn't have to send the contract out
for his signature okay
but
you never ever ever ever get the time
back at least not very much of it now if
you're there are times you're 100 in
sales you've got to get a little bit of
your time back but the number one two
three four five and six mistake i see
founders is they finally hire ahead of
sales and they're like well i'm gonna
spend five percent of my time in sales a
hundred percent no no ninety percent of
the time sales plummets
plummets so
if you accept the fact that you know you
need a head of sales and then you accept
the fact you'll you're not going to get
any more of your time back which is hard
emotionally for found health founders
like i want to get back to product i'm
tired of sales i want to get to know if
you built a self-serve plg product then
great but you didn't you built a product
that needs to you'll never get your time
back if you accept that then you will
actually hire the right vp of sales
because instead of hiring someone with
the perfect resume so you don't have to
sell anymore you will hire a wingman you
will hire a wing person you will hire
your rio i haven't seen what's the new
top gun movie called
maverick do they still have the one in
the back the rio you're hire you got one
of you's got to be the rio like you're
still in the plane together okay you
don't get to get out of the plane and
all of a sudden you'll hire someone you
want to get in the plane every day with
you want to co-cell together you want to
backfill together you want to figure out
what she's good at and then get out of
her way and then do the stuff she's not
good at like and
you will have a radically different
approach to the hire when you accept the
fact you don't get out of sales
and that may sound basic but nine out of
ten founders make this mistake they
don't want to be the real and they don't
want to do the work
so
that those are the real answers in terms
of when
the actual the timing hasn't changed
since like the first sasher post here in
2012 we're in the 10th year of saster
get two aes that hit quota
one's not enough
if it's one you don't know why if it's
one the vp of sales doesn't know why if
it's two the vp of sale vp sales is a
hiring job mainly if you have two
hitting quota and the vp of sales is
good even if they're new even if they're
a stretch vp they'll figure out what the
two are good at and higher three through
30.
if you hire a vp of sales before you
have two
reps that can hit quota
the risk the risk factor is massive the
only time you should take that risk is
when you are truly atrocious at sales
when you are so bad at sales
horrible and listen it turns out it's
hard for a founder to be this bad at
sales because even though you're nervous
to ask for money and even though you
don't know the lingo
customers love to talk to the ceo they
love to talk to the ci henry's level at
a billion they love to talk at 100
million and believe it or not they love
to talk to the ceo when they're your
first customer
just use the letters ceo don't be
arrogant don't be mark zuckerberg from
the social network just say hi i'm i'm
lynn i'm the ceo of of we're a small
we're a small star growing startup out
of
barcelona
we're 10 folks and we're here to solve
your problem that's magical and
any customer that's actually going to
take that call for those 10 people in
barcelona from the ceo they're already
interested and you can close them
you can the ceo can close them even if
you don't know how to close it may take
a month longer like but you can close
them so anyhow even if you think you're
atrocious in sales
i doubt it i think you're at least okay
middle middle mid pack because your
skills as a ceo make up for all the
other ways you're crappy as ahead of
sales
but
if you are if someone gives you 3
million bucks in your seed round and
you're the worst sales person in the
world
take the risk even if you don't have two
reps and you can't hire reps use the
three million bucks because it's you're
almost certainly going to flush it down
the toilet but you got to you got to
make a play like you got it and it works
out i've seen that work out once in a
while um but um
boy boy it's risky right
yeah
okay so a challenge when scaling up
i just got an email from a prospect so
we got money we're going we get more
meetings and we just got an email saying
like okay based on your marketing your
speedness of response and all this it
was great but you know the demo was
messy and actually the ui is not really
what i was expecting sorry sorry just
slow it down because lately this is from
a vc or a customer a customer a prospect
that was impressed with our marketing
with our messaging so you got they were
inbound
uh
yes well whatever a customer came in
they saw your website yeah they started
marketing they loved it they didn't love
the product
exactly okay and it's pretty scary to
hear when you are in a conference when
you're talking about product uh lead
growth yes so i'm wondering did you see
companies dealing with this just because
of the fastness of growth or well let's
step back for a minute
um
there's a silver lining here
which is
um
i see this is one this is if this is one
of the things anyone can fix
in this is it june june what's there's a
whole month left right this is something
almost all of everyone here except you
can do in june which is make your
marketing site better than your product
i wrote this in sasha and then i rewrote
it but listen to me your marketing site
should be better than your product it
should be prettier it should work well
it does you don't have to write a lot of
code on your marketing site okay you can
do it yourself you can hire an agency
you can do it in wordpress you can do it
in webflow i mean if you have to you can
do it in notion like whatever but make
it it's easy to edit right so
i know it's not your question because
i'm answer your question but for
everyone else
it might be a feature and not a bug up
to a point because
it's really a shame when
you have especially when you have a very
productive team and the product's great
and they don't touch the marketing site
and then they hire a mediocre marketer
and he makes it worse and i'm like oh my
god like this that site doesn't even say
what you do
i had one one one founder who walked
around here and went to went to her
booth and came to me and said
this booth doesn't even say what we do
so that's a booth that's worse than the
product which is not that different than
a marketing site this word so it's
to some extent that should be true right
okay so that's point one point two is
my co-founder back in there he did
something that really upset me as
someone that thinks they're ethical and
up front is when we launched back in the
adobe sign he put 20 integrations on our
marketing site of which we did none now
other people do this he's like well i'm
not sure people want a salesforce
integration back then but i'll make a
page that says we have it and then i'll
talk to the lead and then i'll build it
if we get three and we put them all up
and salesforce was the one they all
asked about so we built the first
e-signatures on salesforce and he was
right i hated that he did it i wanted to
kill him but he was right
um and so you have a little bit of that
your your
the good news is
your customer your prospects are telling
you what to build
that's a gift they're telling you what
most of us don't have enough extra leads
telling us what to build the bad news is
your product doesn't do all of it today
but
you can you can sequence it out and so
the next lead you get like this you can
fill one of the gaps in the next quarter
two and then three or four quarters
later you close the next one that looks
like them right
yeah
one one more please yes what is your
vision for sdr europe and how we as a
community can help you in achieving your
goals with this conference what's the
view of sas to europe we're still
learning um
don't we don't spend too much time on
sasha but since all of you invested all
the time to come here we uh
we did 2018 and 2019 in paris
mainly for fun they were cute they're
beautiful
they were basically though
large community meetups versus sastra
annual in the us we want to be the
number one gathering in the world for
sas there can only be one number one
there can't be two number ones right
but
europe has grown up so much in sas and
this has been so great that it's it we
want it to be
as close to the us as it can be right
that's that's the answer for this today
right
there's probably a lot of ways that you
can help but um if people really want to
there's two things you can do that would
help
number one is bring your teams next year
we'll continue to do more and more
content not just for founders but for
all of your team for sales mark and if
you haven't been to the us we try to
have a lot of content so if you bring
your cs leader your marketing leader
your sales leader your engineering or
your product leader they can have enough
value that in theory you could bring
your whole team or even some of your
mid-level managers so you can help
tactically by bringing more of your team
next year
and the other thing that people can help
more in in this room than you realize is
um and we'll remind you promote our
inclusion program we spend almost two
million dollars a year on our inclusion
program we give away thousands it's not
just tickets but we do give away 2 000
tickets
it doesn't look like it but each person
costs us about a thousand dollars here
you know the average person pays 500
bucks so we lose 500 bucks but our good
friends in the middle
thank you very much
go get go get your go get your badge
scan because they paid half your ticket
um and and so but we have budgeted in we
would like
2 000 great less represented founders at
annual and a thousand at europa and we
do okay in the us we came up short this
year i was going to talk about it at the
inclusion brunch but it wasn't we didn't
run out of time we did a little better
in paris than we did here i we ran out
of time i'm i'm frustrated i don't know
why but
bring tel
socialize our inclusion program we have
if if the 500 600 is important we will
subsidize it completely we will we give
them early registration ahead of time
and that's helping us reach our
inclusion goals
is like one of our top we talk about it
every monday every week and we we do
pretty good on speakers our speakers
have been at least 50 women and 66
percent less represented for five years
but we have more work to do on attendees
because sas is 80 dudes
like it is our list we our list is 100
people we know the gender like forget
about other vectors are lit we have 150
000 people so if we send that list it's
going 80 percent dudes 20 women so to
get to 40
like think about how much work it is
mathematically right and speakers the
good news for speakers is we can pick
like we just say like we said no mantles
in 2017 and we tell all our speakers
like you have to bring a diverse
co-presenter and if they say no we just
say don't come but with attendees it's
like uh you ask a question it's more
work so any help on
on spreading the word on our inclusion
program is is it's deeply valued and
it's uh it's one of our we work on it
literally every single week
so thank you yeah
last question yes yes how much of the
great stuff we've heard over the last
couple days applicable to network slash
marketplace businesses yes and
yes and who would be a great person to
consult with on that specifically
it's a really good question um
i don't know
um
i mean a lot of the best sas investors
do b2b marketplaces in b2b sas together
right um
and i'm embarrassed to say i'm not a
marketplace expert and i'm even more
embarrassed today i'm not even sure i'm
interested in it like i mean i i've done
things that have marketplace elements
but um
getting figuring out the ratio of each
side of the network you know those are
not my my strengths
what i have learned of the limited
involvement i have is that look
if the buyers are similar and the acv is
similar the people are similar
the motions are similar and
it's pretty obvious today but like if
there is any genius in sastra that's now
10 years old it's abstracting product
away
from the fact that our go-to-market
motions are pretty much the same at an
acv like it sounds obviously but 10
years ago it was like it was really
disruptive that hey if your product
costs 20k and my product costs 20k
probably we have a lot in common as long
as we don't talk about the features
right and and many frankly product and
even engineering marketing and sales are
all pretty darn similar to price point
so that's the best thing but i don't
have the best mentor or the right idea
there but so i i think the majority is
applicable but there's a small chance
i'm wrong right
hi um it's working um
could i please ask for some more clarity
in the point you made earlier because um
we hired a vp just a little louder
because it's the end of the day yeah
apologies so you mentioned earlier that
it's quite risky to hire a vp of sales
or ahead of sales whatever um with
anything less than two
quota hitting account execs yeah um i'm
interested to understand why because why
we've done that with one uh quota
hitting account exactly but in our case
you know he helped a lot to put
operations process in place and recruit
what exactly do you perceive the high
risk to be is it because you're burning
a lot more cash before you've got quota
hitting
people
uh let me i'm i'm are you challenging
whether
you should hire vp of sales after 180
then two or what's the question sorry
i'm getting a little slow i'm trying to
understand the risk you said it's pretty
risky i'm trying to understand what the
risk is if you hire someone say because
because what happens is
you talk to any founder here that's
passed a few million in revenue
certainly past five ask them who their
magical sales rep was they have one
okay mine was joe colletti we had i
hired joe back in the day at adobe sign
echo sign
he crushed it and then i hired a
terrible vp of sales who hired 10 reps
most of them never closed a single deal
and joe was great but he was a magician
and no one knew why he was a magician
okay now yes
if you're a wicked smart vp of sales and
you spend the time with the magician
you'll learn what the magician is but if
you have two
you have run massive a b test no sales
reps are the same some talk a lot some
demo a lot some are great closers some
are good middlers some are great
conversationalists
but you won't very few vps of sales will
be able to figure out your playbook the
playbook without two without two folks
that can run the playbook you're asking
for too much right
and um even our little team you know we
sponsors make this alive right and um
we'll do 30 we have 30 million of
sponsors at sastra this year 50 million
next year what we have a tiny sales team
one of our sales guys has done 23 and a
half million of that in two and a half
years
he's our now we have a good team but
he's the magician right and when brian
who's our head of partners or sales came
in um that might be him in the shorts
right there at the sales off booth if
you want to ask him brian came in and
said we can't have one
we gotta have five right to hit the plan
and what brian did which is rare is he
took a quota and he became the sec even
though he was the vp of sales he became
the number two ae himself right now he
had another one but he left but my point
is very few people could do that and now
you're nodding because you realize it's
the playbook you don't need a good
startup vp of sales does not need 10
reps hitting quoted to know the playbook
they they might like that to feel
comfortable but they need two so they
can
see what's working and hire the third
fourth and fifth right and um look i did
it i
i say this because i learned it was true
but when i hired brendan cassidy as who
i wrote about it was the first set of
sales is linkedin to be mine
there were there were those 10 reps when
he came in and he got rid of eight
he kept joe and he kept sam blonde who's
now ceo of brex right and brought in
other folks so we sort of had two but it
was really one and a half so yeah it can
be done but but brendan's pretty good
right
most startups i work with that bring in
a vp of sales at zero or or that
magician they never figure out why the
magician was magical they never know why
the magician was magical and that's why
what happens when you don't know why the
magician's magical and you see this
pattern so often is reps three through
ten closed nothing anyone had that
experience where like the next ones
closed nothing maybe not in this room
but maybe if we were later saying
nothing right you have one or two
they close 400 000 a million a year and
then you bring in so they just close
nothing right because it's you need that
playbook to put to put for most vps of
sales
what's that
are we over time
is that the sign is this
one more question one last question yeah
we want this question
so but if your question isn't good we'll
do another one
just so we're clear i'll try to make it
good
we'll do one extra pressure it's like a
good you have to end on a good pistachio
or nut or something like that the bowl
right so
the first two a's that you bring in yes
are you
who gives them the playbook are you
expect are they
good enough to bring their own because
they're so different or is the founder
trying to
educate them
there's there's so many stories
at heart or sales um they they really
they sometimes they like henry said he
it was too it was too uh he dialed in
too many processes and systems early but
i think that's rare although not
uncommon but rare most of us can't train
them and so what you need
is a natural athlete
you need someone that has worked at
another sas company at a similar deal
size another session and then here's the
three third thing and henry brought this
up too
smarter than average
and love software they've got to be sm
anyone hired that magical
are they smarter and love software you
usually see that they or they love your
customer right they may not be a great
closer they may be quirky but like they
can run the demo as good as you and the
customers my my joe my guy i remember
the first year i went to dream force i'm
walking in san francisco and this big
guy grabs my my blazer arm he grabs me
jason jason i'm like who are you he was
from a an accounting stop company called
intact that staged out for a billion
he's like i love joe coletti
like great great to hear that you love
joe no one in two back then had ever
been so passionate about e-signatures in
the history of the you know now there's
a thousand people at docusign and
everything but no one had ever loved
putting a signature in a document quite
the way joe had and joe had also been a
thespian he was an actor so he could and
he was he was he was good with computers
but his sales job before that he was
then a mid mid pack now bottom bottom
bottom
bottom's tough but he was not a top
seller before that but he had another 20
iq points and 20 eq points of passion
and i think a lot of them if you talk to
founders and ask that magical sales
they're going to hear and henry said it
too they got the early guys had to be
smarter and they have to be able to do
the demo they have to have passion and
and then we can break on this you can
boil all of that down to one thing
and we'll leave it at this because this
is a mistake
i've written about this so many times
and so many of you make this mistake
your first the sales reps you hire as a
ceo
you have to
be willing to buy from them
every time
this is actually true of a vp of sales
but every time i talk to a founder and
they tell me my first three sales reps
didn't work out i'm like
it's a bummer and i always ask them the
next question is always the same would
you have bought from them no
why did you hire them well they worked
at twilio they worked at slack they
worked at github
who cares those are great brand would
you buy from them and and and joe had
come from a a fifth-tier mailchimp
competitor but everyone came out of
meeting him i want to i want to sell i
want to buy from this guy like in the
meeting and that's that's infectious
right that's infectious and again boil
all those characteristics of sold at
your acv passionate about product can do
a demo as a founder they will fail those
criteria
um
they will not meet those criteria if you
wouldn't buy from them and if you would
buy from them inherently they're going
to meet these criteria so do not hire
sales reps yourself that you wouldn't
buy your product from just pass no
matter how desperate you are but and
then i'll leave you with this
is this is for sure true henry said the
same thing to billion revenue
once you hire a vp of sales and once
she's proven herself
once she's proven herself
the rule doesn't hold
you cannot force your vp if your vp of
sales hits their number and they inflect
the curve and one month or one quarter
after they hire sales are better so
they've proven there's a doesn't matter
whether the sales have gone up 2x but
just that they've improved they will
bring a much more heterogeneous type of
sales rep they will bring in reps that
you think are dumb they will bring sales
that you that would drive you nuts as
ceo they will bring in reps you would
not want to talk to they will bring in
reps with add they will bring reps that
still use windows devices they will
bring in all these types of folks
but she knows what it takes and she
knows different that sales is still
amazing a human process
and there are different ways to get
there right different motions and let it
go once you have a good result let them
hire whoever they want
within reason and they will be much more
diverse in all ways than anyone you
could ever hire because you you don't
need to buy from the ones that they hire
so thanks everyone for the extra time
thank you so much for coming
everything was great thank you
[Music]
you